# SNOWFLAKE GENERATOR
#### Video Demo:  <URL [HERE](https://youtu.be/u6ul17GMa88)>
#### Description: This is a command line program in c that generates random snowflake patterns

### Introduction

The name of my project is snowflake generator, and it is a command line program written in c.
As the name suggests, this program was designed to generate random snowflake designs, which are displayed on a bitmap image.
To run this porgram, the user has to type the command **./snow**. The program will generate a random design. The user can then view the design by opening the bitmap image

#### Disclaimer
Please note that I am a beginner and currently in the process of learning and improving my coding skills, so some of the code in this repository may be messy, inefficient, or not follow best practices. I am actively working to refine my skills and improve the code over time, so any feedback or suggestions are welcome!

### How it works

## makeflake
The actual snowflake is generated by calling a function in snow.c called **makeflake()**. This is a recursive function that creates snowflake brances. each call generates a main branch with at least one sub brunch.
pattern by drawing a series of lines at different lengths and angles, with the help of the **drawline()** function. the drawline function takes a struct called **point** as one of its arguments and returns another point, the endpoint of the generated line. The drawline function also has an angle argument. This allows makeflake to create a sub branch at any angle (in this case 60 degrees) from the main branch. Makeflake generates a single main branch, and then rotates every generated point 60 degrees to create a complete snowflake.

## drawline
To generate the snowflake, **makeflake** calls the function drawline. Drawline draws lines by coloring pixels that satisfy the equation.
drawline generates lines given a specific angle and length. In this case, all the angles are a multiple of 60. Drawline uses two structs, formula and point. Point stores the coordinates of points on the pixel array and formula stores m and c (y = mx + c)

given a starting point and an angle, drawline uses the function lineforml which generates the formula for a line at a given angle that passes through a certain point.

## dist()
dist just calculates the distance between two points (or pixels). it is used by drawline so it knows when to stop deawing (when
the line reaches the required length)

## lineforml
lineforml function generates a fomula for a straight line passing through a certain point at a certain angle. It
outputs a struct called formula, which is then used by drawline to draw a line at the desired angle.

## rotate() and six()
the rotate function uses the standard formula for rotating points on a 2d plane to rotate a given point at a given angle. This function is called by the function six() in a loop that rotates each point at an angle that is  multiple of six until every point is rotated 6 times to mimic the symmetry of a snowflake. The makeflake function only really makes one of the six branches, and the rest are just copies of that first branch.

## Style
I stylised the image to give the fractal a more polished look. first i used the **fill()** function to fill a certain area of pixels around each point on the lines to make the lines bolder and more visible. Then, to create a crystal like effect i reused edge detection code I wrote for the filter problem, but changed the color values so the edges are blue instead of white.

